---
layout: post
title: Sass 101
---

##What is Sass?

Sass is a pre-processor that is supposed to make writing and organizing CSS a lot easier. (In a nut shell)
I have my likes and dislikes about it, and one of my favorite features about Sass are the variables. You're able to declare a variable at the very top of the page and then use it to represent a CSS value. It's handy when if repeating yourself throughout the CSS. If you need to go back and change the margins or the color of something it is much easier when you have these sassy variables! 

###Sass Variables!
{% highlight css %}
$PrimaryLinksDuh: #5b9fe1;
$HelloStandMargins: 1.5rem 1rem;
$SecondaryColorPlease: #111111;

header{
margins : $StandMargins;
}
{% endhighlight %}

###Nesting!
Sass lets you nest your classes inside other classes. This comes in handy because you can organize your CSS to match your HTML and everything will be easier to find. I like nesting because to me it is easier to read. I can tell I am making the color of the nav text $PrimaryLinks. 

{% highlight css %}
.header{
font-size:1.6rem;
  .nav{
      color: $PrimaryLinks;
  }
}
{% endhighlight %}

###It's not perfect ##(to me) #[but we can still be friends]
My only big problem with Sass is that you have to write your media queries right after its selection in the CSS. That leaves you writing a lot of media queries. Maybe there can be a variable or mixin that we could write that let's us write less of the same media query template? 

###Media Queries
{% highlight css %}
.h1 {
  font-size: 1.5rem;
  text-align: left;
  color: $SecondaryColorPlease;

  @media (min-width: 768px) {
    text-align: center;
  }
}
//notice how the media query is inside the h1 tag. 
{% endhighlight %}

###Mixins
I like the idea of mixins but they can lead to some headaches. They look a lot like a variable but you're putting a lot more into a mixin than one attribute. Check it out here :wavy_dash:

<p data-height="552" data-theme-id="0" data-slug-hash="xJAak" data-default-tab="result" data-user="nestormanuel" class='codepen'>See the Pen <a href='http://codepen.io/nestormanuel/pen/xJAak/'>xJAak</a> by nestor manuel (<a href='http://codepen.io/nestormanuel'>@nestormanuel</a>) on <a href='http://codepen.io'>CodePen</a>.</p>
<script async src="//codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>



